UPGRADE.md, before:

# UPGRADE GUIDE

## v2.0.0 -> v2.1.0
- You _must_ run migrations before deploying the new oidc code. If you haven't yet deployed v2.0.0 then you should update to v2.0.0 first before updating to v2.1.0. The migrations in 2.1 will break your app if it's < 2.0.
- app_name is no longer allowed in the body of the invite and reinvite endpoints. The client's `client_name` value will be used instead.
- If your app uses the `/user/logout` url to initiate logouts from your client then you must set the `CLIENT_INITIATED_LOGOUT` environment variable to 'true'. If you don't your logout link will return a 404
- Change password:
  - Introduces `change-password` screen and `change-password-success-email` email templates
  - Link to change password form: `${oidcServer}/user/password?client_id=${clientId}&redirect_uri=${redirectUri}`
- Email settings:
  - Introduces `email-settings` and `email-verify-success` screens and `email-verify-email`, `change-email-verify-email`, and `change-email-alert-email` emails.
  - Link to email settings screen: `${oidcServer}/user/email-settings?client_id=${clientId}&redirect_uri=${redirectUri}`


## v1.4.0 -> v2.0.0

- The `/api/invite` and `/api/resent-invite/{userId}`endpoints now requires a `response_type` in the POST body. Please provide one of the response type values you have configured for your client.
- Update your keystore file to contain only the certificates keystore. JSON goes from `{certificates: /*certificates keystore json object*/, integrity: /*integrity keystore json object*/}` to just this `/*certificates keystore json object*/`.
- You _must_ run migrations before deploying the new oidc code.
- You must not provide the access token when linking a user to the edit profile page. The url will now look like this: `{oidc-domain}/user/profile?client_id={clientId}&redirect_uri={redirectUri}`

Commit message:

137/stop hardcoding pairwise salt (#195)
* stop hardcoding pairwise salt

* add some helpful links to the upgrade guide

UPGRADE.md, after:

# UPGRADE GUIDE

## v2.0.0 -> v2.1.0
- You _must_ run migrations before deploying the new oidc code. If you haven't yet deployed v2.0.0 then you should update to v2.0.0 first before updating to v2.1.0. The migrations in 2.1 will break your app if it's < 2.0.
- app_name is no longer allowed in the body of the invite and reinvite endpoints. The client's `client_name` value will be used instead.
- If your app uses the `/user/logout` url to initiate logouts from your client then you must set the `CLIENT_INITIATED_LOGOUT` environment variable to 'true'. If you don't your logout link will return a 404. More information in the [Installation Guide](docs/installation.md#app-config)
- You must set the `OIDC_PAIRWISE_SALT` environment variable to a random cryptographically secure salt. More information in the [Installation Guide](docs/installation.md#app-config)
- Change password:
  - Introduces `change-password` screen and `change-password-success-email` email templates
  - Link to change password form: `${oidcServer}/user/password?client_id=${clientId}&redirect_uri=${redirectUri}`
- Email settings:
  - Introduces `email-settings` and `email-verify-success` screens and `email-verify-email`, `change-email-verify-email`, and `change-email-alert-email` emails.
  - Link to email settings screen: `${oidcServer}/user/email-settings?client_id=${clientId}&redirect_uri=${redirectUri}`


## v1.4.0 -> v2.0.0

- The `/api/invite` and `/api/resent-invite/{userId}`endpoints now requires a `response_type` in the POST body. Please provide one of the response type values you have configured for your client.
- Update your keystore file to contain only the certificates keystore. JSON goes from `{certificates: /*certificates keystore json object*/, integrity: /*integrity keystore json object*/}` to just this `/*certificates keystore json object*/`.
- You _must_ run migrations before deploying the new oidc code.
- You must not provide the access token when linking a user to the edit profile page. The url will now look like this: `{oidc-domain}/user/profile?client_id={clientId}&redirect_uri={redirectUri}`
