docs/installation.md, before:

# Installation

Each release of the Synapse OIDC Platform is built as a docker public docker image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/synapsestudios/oidc-platform/). The docker image is the recommended way to deploy the OIDC Platform for both development and production purposes. If it is necessary to run the identity platform without docker then you will have to checkout the code from this repo and run the node server on your own boxes.

## App Config

| Environment Variable      | Description |
| --------------------      | ----------- |
| OIDC_BASE_URL             | The url that the OIDC Provider is hosted at |
| OIDC_INITIAL_ACCESS_TOKEN | A strong token that will be used to create new clients |
| COOKIE_KEY                | Set this to a long string to be used to encrypt session cookies |
| OLD_COOKIE_KEY            | When you update COOKIE_KEY make sure to set OLD_COOKIE_KEY to the value that was in COOKIE_KEY. New cookies will be encrypted with the COOKIE_KEY. Old cookies will be decrypted with OLD_COOKIE_KEY to be validated then reencrypted with COOKIE_KEY |

## Keystores

node-oidc-provider uses [node-jose](https://github.com/cisco/node-jose) keys and stores to encrypt, sign and decrypt things (mostly tokens and stuff). For security purposes YOU SHOULD PROVIDE YOUR OWN KEYS. The synapse OpenID Connect platform provides a default set of keys so that it will work if you do not provide your own, but PLEASE DO NOT USE THE DEFAULTS IN PRODUCTION.

### Generating Keys

We provide a script that will generate a keystore file that can be run like this:

```
$ npm run generate-keys
```

If you're running the OIDC platform inside a container with docker-compose you can run it this way:

```
$ docker-compose exec synapse-oidc npm run generate-keys
$ docker-compose exec synapse-oidc cat keystores.json > keystores.json
```

Now you have a `keystores.json` file. Put that in an AWS S3 bucket and configure the required environment variables.

| Environment Variables | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| KEYSTORE              | The name of your keystore file |
| KEYSTORE_BUCKET       | The bucket your keystore can be found in |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY        | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |

When `KEYSTORE` and `KEYSTORE_BUCKET` are provided the Synapse OpenID Provider will attempt to pull the keystores from S3 when the node service starts. If you provide the `KEYSTORE` and `KEYSTORE_BUCKET` variables but NOT the AWS credential variables then the provider api will fail to start.

## Database

The OIDC Platform supports Postgres or MySQL. The database server is not packaged with the OIDC platform. You must create a blank database and provide connection details to the OIDC Platform through environment variables.

### Configuring the OIDC Platform to use your database

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                                |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| OIDC_DB_ADAPTER      | Tell the platform which database adapter to use. Value can be either 'mysql' or 'postgres' |
| OIDC_DB_HOST         | The host url for the database                                                              |
| OIDC_DB_PORT         | The port to connect on                                                                     |
| OIDC_DB_NAME         | Database Name                                                                              |
| OIDC_DB_USER         | The user you want the platform to use                                                      |
| OIDC_DB_PASSWORD     | The user's password                                                                        |

### Creating tables for the first time

Once the database is configured and the OIDC Platform is running and connected to the database you must run the migrate command which will create all of the necessary tables in your database. Run this command from inside your container:

```
npm run migrate
```

## Email

The OIDC platform provides some features that will send emails. In order to send emails the OIDC Provider needs to be configured to use an email service. Currently the platform only supports [mailgun](https://www.mailgun.com/) and [AWS SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/). Configuring your email provider occurs in environment variables.

| Environment Variables | Provider | Description |
| --------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| OIDC_EMAIL_DRIVER     | both     | Tell the platform which email provider to user. Value can be either 'ses' or 'mailgun' |
| OIDC_EMAIL_DOMAIN     | both     | The domain to send emails from |
| OIDC_EMAIL_WHITELIST  | both     | A whitelist of domains (comma separated) that emails can be sent to. If OIDC_EMAIL_WHITELIST is not set then the whitelist feature will not be used |
| OIDC_EMAIL_TRAP       | both     | If whitelist check fails then the email will be sent to the email specified by OIDC_EMAIL_TRAP |
| MAILGUN_API_KEY       | mailgun  | If you're using mailgun you must provide an api key |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY        | ses      | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | ses      | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |

## Files

Users can upload profile pictures when editing their profile. The platform makes use of [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) to store files. In order to store files in s3 you will need to configure some values in environment varialbes.

| Environment Variables | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| OIDC_S3_BUCKET        | The bucket in s3 that files will be saved to |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY        | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |

Commit message:

make client initiated logout configurable

docs/installation.md, after:

# Installation

Each release of the Synapse OIDC Platform is built as a docker public docker image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/synapsestudios/oidc-platform/). The docker image is the recommended way to deploy the OIDC Platform for both development and production purposes. If it is necessary to run the identity platform without docker then you will have to checkout the code from this repo and run the node server on your own boxes.

## App Config

| Environment Variable      | Description |
| --------------------      | ----------- |
| OIDC_BASE_URL             | The url that the OIDC Provider is hosted at |
| OIDC_INITIAL_ACCESS_TOKEN | A strong token that will be used to create new clients |
| COOKIE_KEY                | Set this to a long string to be used to encrypt session cookies |
| OLD_COOKIE_KEY            | When you update COOKIE_KEY make sure to set OLD_COOKIE_KEY to the value that was in COOKIE_KEY. New cookies will be encrypted with the COOKIE_KEY. Old cookies will be decrypted with OLD_COOKIE_KEY to be validated then reencrypted with COOKIE_KEY |
| CLIENT_INITIATED_LOGOUT   | Set to true if you want to enable client initiated logouts using the `/user/logout` endpoint |
## Keystores

node-oidc-provider uses [node-jose](https://github.com/cisco/node-jose) keys and stores to encrypt, sign and decrypt things (mostly tokens and stuff). For security purposes YOU SHOULD PROVIDE YOUR OWN KEYS. The synapse OpenID Connect platform provides a default set of keys so that it will work if you do not provide your own, but PLEASE DO NOT USE THE DEFAULTS IN PRODUCTION.

### Generating Keys

We provide a script that will generate a keystore file that can be run like this:

```
$ npm run generate-keys
```

If you're running the OIDC platform inside a container with docker-compose you can run it this way:

```
$ docker-compose exec synapse-oidc npm run generate-keys
$ docker-compose exec synapse-oidc cat keystores.json > keystores.json
```

Now you have a `keystores.json` file. Put that in an AWS S3 bucket and configure the required environment variables.

| Environment Variables | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| KEYSTORE              | The name of your keystore file |
| KEYSTORE_BUCKET       | The bucket your keystore can be found in |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY        | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |

When `KEYSTORE` and `KEYSTORE_BUCKET` are provided the Synapse OpenID Provider will attempt to pull the keystores from S3 when the node service starts. If you provide the `KEYSTORE` and `KEYSTORE_BUCKET` variables but NOT the AWS credential variables then the provider api will fail to start.

## Database

The OIDC Platform supports Postgres or MySQL. The database server is not packaged with the OIDC platform. You must create a blank database and provide connection details to the OIDC Platform through environment variables.

### Configuring the OIDC Platform to use your database

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                                |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| OIDC_DB_ADAPTER      | Tell the platform which database adapter to use. Value can be either 'mysql' or 'postgres' |
| OIDC_DB_HOST         | The host url for the database                                                              |
| OIDC_DB_PORT         | The port to connect on                                                                     |
| OIDC_DB_NAME         | Database Name                                                                              |
| OIDC_DB_USER         | The user you want the platform to use                                                      |
| OIDC_DB_PASSWORD     | The user's password                                                                        |

### Creating tables for the first time

Once the database is configured and the OIDC Platform is running and connected to the database you must run the migrate command which will create all of the necessary tables in your database. Run this command from inside your container:

```
npm run migrate
```

## Email

The OIDC platform provides some features that will send emails. In order to send emails the OIDC Provider needs to be configured to use an email service. Currently the platform only supports [mailgun](https://www.mailgun.com/) and [AWS SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/). Configuring your email provider occurs in environment variables.

| Environment Variables | Provider | Description |
| --------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| OIDC_EMAIL_DRIVER     | both     | Tell the platform which email provider to user. Value can be either 'ses' or 'mailgun' |
| OIDC_EMAIL_DOMAIN     | both     | The domain to send emails from |
| OIDC_EMAIL_WHITELIST  | both     | A whitelist of domains (comma separated) that emails can be sent to. If OIDC_EMAIL_WHITELIST is not set then the whitelist feature will not be used |
| OIDC_EMAIL_TRAP       | both     | If whitelist check fails then the email will be sent to the email specified by OIDC_EMAIL_TRAP |
| MAILGUN_API_KEY       | mailgun  | If you're using mailgun you must provide an api key |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY        | ses      | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | ses      | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |

## Files

Users can upload profile pictures when editing their profile. The platform makes use of [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) to store files. In order to store files in s3 you will need to configure some values in environment varialbes.

| Environment Variables | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| OIDC_S3_BUCKET        | The bucket in s3 that files will be saved to |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY        | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | Documented [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-environment.html) |
