docs/theming.md, before:

# Theming

The theming system in the Synapse OIDC Provider is a robust way to provide a completely custom look and feel for the identity management screens and emails to match your app. Themes can be configured per client so your screens can look right for every app you use with the Synapse OIDC Provider.

Currently themes are only configurable by inserting records into the database directly.

## Create a theme

Create a theme by inserting a new record into the `SIP_theme` table. In order to make use of your new theme on a client update the `theme_id` field in the `SIP_client` table with the id of the new theme.

### Templates

Templates are the individual screens that can be created. To create a new template insert a record into the `SIP_template` table with a `theme_id`, `name` and `code`. The code field should be a string that will be compiled using the handlebars templating engine. If you create a theme and don't provide a template for a screen then the theming engine will default to using the default template for that screen.

#### Available screens
| name                    | Description                                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| forgot-password-email   | The email that is sent when a user completes the forgot password form successfully |
| invite-email            | The email that is sent when a new user is invited                                  |
| forgot-password-success | The success screen when a user completes the forgot password form                  |
| forgot-password         | The forgot password form                  |
| reset-password-success  | The success screen when a user completes the reset password form                   |
| reset-password          | The reset password form                                                            |
| user-profile            | The user profile edit form                                                         |
| user-registration       | The user registration form                                                         |
| login                   | The login form                                                                     |
| end_session             | The identity provider logout screen                                                |
| interaction             | Any other OIDC interactions                                                        |
| change-password         | The change password form |
| change-password-success-email | The email that alerts users that their password has changed |
| email-settings | The email settings screen |
| email-verify-success | The success screen users see after clicking the verify link from their email |
| email-verify-email | The email address verification email |
| change-email-verify-email | The email sent to the new address with a verify link after the user changes their email |
| change-email-alert-email | The eamil sent to the old address with an alert that the user's email has changed |

##### Variables

Each template will receive the same variables as the [layout](#layout). In addition each template will be provided with unique values that can be used.

###### forgot-password-email
```
{
  url // the url used to build the link the user clicks to set their new password
}
```

###### forgot-password
```
{
  formAction, // url for the form to post to
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### invite-email
```
{
  url, // the url used to build the link the user clicks to set their new password
  appName, // the name of the application the user is being invited to
}
```

###### forgot-password-success
```
{
  // nothing
}
```

###### reset-password-success
```
{
  // nothing
}
```

###### reset-password
```
{
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### user-profile
```
{
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  fields, // array of field objects
}

/* example field object */
{
  name, // machine name of the field
  label, // human readable name of the field
  type, // input type, used in <input> tag
  value, // the value of the field, used in <input> tag

  isFile, // true if the field is a file upload
  accept, // mime types allowed if it's a file

  isDropdown, // true if the field is a dropdown
  options, // dropdown options formatted like [{ label, value, selected }]

  error, // validation errors formatted like ['message', 'message2']
}

/*
You'll receive a field object for each of these fields:
[
  'name',
  'given_name',
  'family_name',
  'middle_name',
  'nickname',
  'preferred_username',
  'profile',
  'picture',
  'website',
  'gender',
  'birthdate',
  'zoneinfo',
  'locale',
  'phone_number',
  'address.street_address',
  'address.locality',
  'address.region',
  'address.postal_code',
  'address.country',
]
*/
```

###### user-registration
```
{
  email, // the users email if available
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### login
```
{
  forgotPasswordPath, // link to the forgot password form
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### end_session
```
{
  form, // An html form with a hidden input. submit this form to log out your user
}
```

###### interaction
```
{
  // nothing
}
```

###### change-password
```
{
  formAction, // url the form will post to
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### change-password-success-email
```
{
  appName, // the name of the client application
}
```

###### email-settings
The email settings screen allows the user to do one of four things:
1. Change their email address
1. Resend a verification email to their current address (if unverified)
1. Resend a verification email to their new pending address
1. Cancel a pending email change

```
{
  formAction, // the url the forms should post to
  email, // user's current email
  emailVerified, // bool indicating whether or not the user has verified their email address
  pendingEmail, // the user's new email. only shown if they haven't yet verified the new email
  success, // bool indicating whether one of the forms was successfully submitted
  successMessage, // A message to show the user when one of the form actions succeeds
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### email-verify-success
```
{
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### email-verify-email
```
{
  appName, // client application name
  url, // the verification url
}
```

###### change-email-verify-email
```
{
  appName, // client application name
  url, // the verification url
}
```

###### change-email-alert-email
```
{
  appName, // client application name
}
```

### Layout

Layouts are the wrapping html that themplates are rendered into. Create a new layout by inserting a record into the `SIP_layout` table with a `name` and `code`. The code field should be a string that will be compiled using the handlebars templating engine. Update template records by setting their `layout_id` field in order to use your new layout.

#### Variables

```
{
  /* This is the client object from the oidc provider */
  client,

  /* This is the cookie object set by the oidc provider */
  /* only provided for login and interaction screens */
  cookie,

  /* This is the user object */
  /* not provided when the user isn't logged in yet */
  user,

  title
}
```

##### Example Client Object

```
Client {
  applicationType: 'web',
  backchannelLogoutSessionRequired: undefined,
  grantTypes: [
    'authorization_code',
    'client_credentials',
    'implicit',
    'password'
  ],
  idTokenSignedResponseAlg: 'RS256',
  postLogoutRedirectUris: [ 'https://sso-client.dev:3000/logout' ],
  requestUris: [],
  requireAuthTime: false,
  responseTypes: [ 'code id_token token' ],
  subjectType: 'public',
  tokenEndpointAuthMethod: 'client_secret_basic',
  clientId: '25bb32fc-a9b4-4124-9b60-09961c5dcc28',
  clientIdIssuedAt: '1507572681',
  clientSecret: 'MCyKwnw0N8q172A8aALzdgCyuYtVBiDlJVG9/WgiVfZFhY8Eokslc1SBm7nyuaPn',
  clientSecretExpiresAt: '0',
  contacts: [],
  defaultAcrValues: [],
  redirectUris: [ 'https://sso-client.dev:3000/' ],
  introspectionEndpointAuthMethod: 'client_secret_basic',
  revocationEndpointAuthMethod: 'client_secret_basic',
  revocationEndpointAuthSigningAlg: undefined,
  introspectionEndpointAuthSigningAlg: undefined
}
```

##### Example User Object
```
{
  id: 'e0746f3a-9625-4ee3-99e3-7d72ac1bc79a',
  email: 'aaron+user@something.com',
  profile: { email_verified: false, phone_number_verified: false },
  app_metadata: [],
  email_lower: 'aaron+user@something.com',
  pending_email: null,
  pending_email_lower: null
}
```

##### Example Cookie Object

```
Session {
  returnTo: 'http://sso-client.dev:9000/op/auth/4e51909b-1b61-4795-92a4-ce4fe9ea5aeb',
  interaction: { error: 'login_required',
     error_description: 'End-User authentication is required',
     reason: 'no_session',
     reason_description: 'Please Sign-in to continue.'
  },
  uuid: '4e51909b-1b61-4795-92a4-ce4fe9ea5aeb',
  params: { acr_values: '',
     client_id: '25bb32fc-a9b4-4124-9b60-09961c5dcc28',
     nonce: 'nonce',
     redirect_uri: 'https://sso-client.dev:3000/',
     response_mode: 'fragment',
     response_type: 'code id_token token',
     scope: 'openid profile app_metadata'
  },
  id: '4e51909b-1b61-4795-92a4-ce4fe9ea5aeb'
}
```

Commit message:

update email templates with overridable subjects

docs/theming.md, after:

# Theming

The theming system in the Synapse OIDC Provider is a robust way to provide a completely custom look and feel for the identity management screens and emails to match your app. Themes can be configured per client so your screens can look right for every app you use with the Synapse OIDC Provider.

Currently themes are only configurable by inserting records into the database directly.

## Create a theme

Create a theme by inserting a new record into the `SIP_theme` table. In order to make use of your new theme on a client update the `theme_id` field in the `SIP_client` table with the id of the new theme.

### Templates

Templates are the individual screens that can be created. To create a new template insert a record into the `SIP_template` table with a `theme_id`, `name` and `code`. The code field should be a string that will be compiled using the handlebars templating engine. If you create a theme and don't provide a template for a screen then the theming engine will default to using the default template for that screen.

#### Available screens
| name                    | Description                                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| forgot-password-email   | The email that is sent when a user completes the forgot password form successfully |
| invite-email            | The email that is sent when a new user is invited                                  |
| forgot-password-success | The success screen when a user completes the forgot password form                  |
| forgot-password         | The forgot password form                  |
| reset-password-success  | The success screen when a user completes the reset password form                   |
| reset-password          | The reset password form                                                            |
| user-profile            | The user profile edit form                                                         |
| user-registration       | The user registration form                                                         |
| login                   | The login form                                                                     |
| end_session             | The identity provider logout screen                                                |
| interaction             | Any other OIDC interactions                                                        |
| change-password         | The change password form |
| change-password-success-email | The email that alerts users that their password has changed |
| email-settings | The email settings screen |
| email-verify-success | The success screen users see after clicking the verify link from their email |
| email-verify-email | The email address verification email |
| change-email-verify-email | The email sent to the new address with a verify link after the user changes their email |
| change-email-alert-email | The eamil sent to the old address with an alert that the user's email has changed |

##### Options

For each template record in the `SIP_template` table there is an `options` json field. The only thing this is currently used for is that if you set this to `{"subject":"hello"}` on an email template then the subject from your options object will be used when sending the email.

##### Variables

Each template will receive the same variables as the [layout](#layout). In addition each template will be provided with unique values that can be used.

###### forgot-password-email
```
{
  url // the url used to build the link the user clicks to set their new password
}
```

###### forgot-password
```
{
  formAction, // url for the form to post to
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### invite-email
```
{
  url, // the url used to build the link the user clicks to set their new password
  appName, // the name of the application the user is being invited to
}
```

###### forgot-password-success
```
{
  // nothing
}
```

###### reset-password-success
```
{
  // nothing
}
```

###### reset-password
```
{
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### user-profile
```
{
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  fields, // array of field objects
}

/* example field object */
{
  name, // machine name of the field
  label, // human readable name of the field
  type, // input type, used in <input> tag
  value, // the value of the field, used in <input> tag

  isFile, // true if the field is a file upload
  accept, // mime types allowed if it's a file

  isDropdown, // true if the field is a dropdown
  options, // dropdown options formatted like [{ label, value, selected }]

  error, // validation errors formatted like ['message', 'message2']
}

/*
You'll receive a field object for each of these fields:
[
  'name',
  'given_name',
  'family_name',
  'middle_name',
  'nickname',
  'preferred_username',
  'profile',
  'picture',
  'website',
  'gender',
  'birthdate',
  'zoneinfo',
  'locale',
  'phone_number',
  'address.street_address',
  'address.locality',
  'address.region',
  'address.postal_code',
  'address.country',
]
*/
```

###### user-registration
```
{
  email, // the users email if available
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### login
```
{
  forgotPasswordPath, // link to the forgot password form
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### end_session
```
{
  form, // An html form with a hidden input. submit this form to log out your user
}
```

###### interaction
```
{
  // nothing
}
```

###### change-password
```
{
  formAction, // url the form will post to
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### change-password-success-email
```
{
  appName, // the name of the client application
}
```

###### email-settings
The email settings screen allows the user to do one of four things:
1. Change their email address
1. Resend a verification email to their current address (if unverified)
1. Resend a verification email to their new pending address
1. Cancel a pending email change

```
{
  formAction, // the url the forms should post to
  email, // user's current email
  emailVerified, // bool indicating whether or not the user has verified their email address
  pendingEmail, // the user's new email. only shown if they haven't yet verified the new email
  success, // bool indicating whether one of the forms was successfully submitted
  successMessage, // A message to show the user when one of the form actions succeeds
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  error, // bool, true if there are errors
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### email-verify-success
```
{
  returnTo, // url to return the user to if they cancel
  validationErrorMessages, // errors formatted like { field: ['message', 'message2'] }
}
```

###### email-verify-email
```
{
  appName, // client application name
  url, // the verification url
}
```

###### change-email-verify-email
```
{
  appName, // client application name
  url, // the verification url
}
```

###### change-email-alert-email
```
{
  appName, // client application name
}
```

### Layout

Layouts are the wrapping html that themplates are rendered into. Create a new layout by inserting a record into the `SIP_layout` table with a `name` and `code`. The code field should be a string that will be compiled using the handlebars templating engine. Update template records by setting their `layout_id` field in order to use your new layout.

#### Variables

```
{
  /* This is the client object from the oidc provider */
  client,

  /* This is the cookie object set by the oidc provider */
  /* only provided for login and interaction screens */
  cookie,

  /* This is the user object */
  /* not provided when the user isn't logged in yet */
  user,

  title
}
```

##### Example Client Object

```
Client {
  applicationType: 'web',
  backchannelLogoutSessionRequired: undefined,
  grantTypes: [
    'authorization_code',
    'client_credentials',
    'implicit',
    'password'
  ],
  idTokenSignedResponseAlg: 'RS256',
  postLogoutRedirectUris: [ 'https://sso-client.dev:3000/logout' ],
  requestUris: [],
  requireAuthTime: false,
  responseTypes: [ 'code id_token token' ],
  subjectType: 'public',
  tokenEndpointAuthMethod: 'client_secret_basic',
  clientId: '25bb32fc-a9b4-4124-9b60-09961c5dcc28',
  clientIdIssuedAt: '1507572681',
  clientSecret: 'MCyKwnw0N8q172A8aALzdgCyuYtVBiDlJVG9/WgiVfZFhY8Eokslc1SBm7nyuaPn',
  clientSecretExpiresAt: '0',
  contacts: [],
  defaultAcrValues: [],
  redirectUris: [ 'https://sso-client.dev:3000/' ],
  introspectionEndpointAuthMethod: 'client_secret_basic',
  revocationEndpointAuthMethod: 'client_secret_basic',
  revocationEndpointAuthSigningAlg: undefined,
  introspectionEndpointAuthSigningAlg: undefined
}
```

##### Example User Object
```
{
  id: 'e0746f3a-9625-4ee3-99e3-7d72ac1bc79a',
  email: 'aaron+user@something.com',
  profile: { email_verified: false, phone_number_verified: false },
  app_metadata: [],
  email_lower: 'aaron+user@something.com',
  pending_email: null,
  pending_email_lower: null
}
```

##### Example Cookie Object

```
Session {
  returnTo: 'http://sso-client.dev:9000/op/auth/4e51909b-1b61-4795-92a4-ce4fe9ea5aeb',
  interaction: { error: 'login_required',
     error_description: 'End-User authentication is required',
     reason: 'no_session',
     reason_description: 'Please Sign-in to continue.'
  },
  uuid: '4e51909b-1b61-4795-92a4-ce4fe9ea5aeb',
  params: { acr_values: '',
     client_id: '25bb32fc-a9b4-4124-9b60-09961c5dcc28',
     nonce: 'nonce',
     redirect_uri: 'https://sso-client.dev:3000/',
     response_mode: 'fragment',
     response_type: 'code id_token token',
     scope: 'openid profile app_metadata'
  },
  id: '4e51909b-1b61-4795-92a4-ce4fe9ea5aeb'
}
```
